.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2026 The FreeBSD Foundation
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.Dd April 30, 2026
.Dt TCPSTATS-READER 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm tcpstats-reader
.Nd read TCP socket statistics from the tcpstats kernel module
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl p
.Op Fl c Ar count
.Op Fl i Ar interval
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
utility reads TCP connection statistics from the
.Xr tcpstats 4
kernel module via the
.Pa /dev/tcpstats
character device and outputs the data as JSON Lines to standard output.
.Pp
Each collection pass iterates all TCP connections visible to the reader
and emits a single JSON object containing an array of per-connection
records with fields such as TCP state, addresses, ports, congestion
control parameters, RTT, sequence numbers, and buffer utilization.
.Pp
By default,
.Nm
runs continuously with a one-second interval between passes.
Use the
.Fl c
option to limit the number of passes.
.Sh OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width "-i interval"
.It Fl c Ar count , Fl -count Ar count
Number of collection passes to perform.
A value of 0 means run indefinitely.
Default: 0.
.It Fl i Ar interval , Fl -interval Ar interval
Collection interval in seconds.
Fractional values are accepted.
Default: 1.
.It Fl p , Fl -pretty
Pretty-print JSON output with indentation.
.It Fl h , Fl -help
Display a help message and exit.
.El
.Sh EXIT STATUS
.Ex -std
.Sh EXAMPLES
Collect a single snapshot with pretty-printed output:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
tcpstats-reader -c 1 -p
.Ed
.Pp
Collect 10 passes at 5-second intervals:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
tcpstats-reader -c 10 -i 5
.Ed
.Pp
Stream continuously to a file:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
tcpstats-reader > /var/log/tcpstats.jsonl
.Ed
.Pp
Pipe to
.Xr jq 1
for filtering:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
tcpstats-reader -c 1 | jq '.records[] | select(.state == "ESTABLISHED")'
.Ed
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr jq 1 ,
.Xr tcp 4 ,
.Xr tcpstats 4
.Sh HISTORY
The
.Nm
utility first appeared as part of the bsd-xtcp project.
.Sh AUTHORS
The
.Nm
utility was written by
.An Dave Seddon .
